Alright, James, it is your turn, sir.
James Wade: Alright.
James Wade: My computer's using way too much RAM, so I'm gonna close a couple things.
James Wade: Macs aren't supposed to have this problem.
Blythe Coons: Mine often says I'm doing too much, and I'm sure I'm doing way less than you.
James Wade: It's just, I'm lazy about closing things.
James Wade: Okay, so as far as feedback goes, I think what I'm after is two things. I have not added… I've had, like, there's plenty of styling in this, but I haven't added, images, to it, like, salient images that might be… so if you have any suggestions for that, but maybe more importantly.
James Wade: I want to get a sense of pace, because I want to know if what I'm saying already feels obvious, and I should just get to, like, the kind of demo tips and tricks portion of it.
Blythe Coons: Okay.
Blythe Coons: I'll keep an eye on time for different sections.
James Wade: Okay. All right, hi everybody. I am here today to tell you about Shiny Apps, but before I talk about what I mean by that, I first want to tell you my goals for today.
James Wade: Fundamentally, my goal for today is to convince you is that you should build more shiny apps, And then…
James Wade: I want you to throw them away.
James Wade: So, who am I to say this? So, my name is James Wade, and I build lots and lots of shiny apps.
James Wade: I know both sides of this. So, the deep production side, I have a 2-year-old Shiny app that has over 500 active users. It has tests as part of it, CICD pipelines, it has a development backlog that continues to grow by the day, it seems.
James Wade: And so I know the pain that can come from the longevity, but also, of course, the value of having a long-living, shiny application.
James Wade: On the other side of this.
James Wade: I build lots of apps that I throw away. I'll build something for an individual meeting, maybe it needs to stay alive for an hour or so.
James Wade: And then it can die gracefully, or more likely, just water up Closet Connect. But I do know the power of the immediacy of having an application when otherwise you wouldn't normally have something that you can go and interact with.
James Wade: Let's think about more of the motivation here and the frustration that I imagine many of you have seen. So you put together a finely crafted presentation, you present your analysis, you have these polished slides, and then a stakeholder comes to you and says.
James Wade: that's really interesting, but what if we looked at the data this way? What if we filtered by year, or looked at this by quarter, or what if I added some more data to this?
James Wade: And… Your answer is, I'll have to get back to you on that.
James Wade: You've sort of stopped the conversation, or the momentum, or maybe even the excitement has been lost.
James Wade: Depending on you to then go back and follow up later on.
James Wade: I want to come back, or I want to start, use an analogy here, to think about going into a museum.
James Wade: So, I have 3 young kids. We spend lots of time at kids' museums, which, if you haven't been to one recently, is basically an indoor playground that has lots of fun, interactive,
James Wade: components to it. It has hand-on exploration, you really can actively discover things, you can probably catch a few diseases from all the other kids that are playing around, and it really invites you… it's an inviting
James Wade: fun place to be. If you contrast this with an art museum, this is a place where, you know, you feel like maybe you should go. It's… you're not gonna take kids there, but it's a place where you can enjoy the aesthetics and really appreciate true beauty for well-crafted consideration.
James Wade: it has a passive component to it, and it really is creating a single perspective. And if you contrast these to an app.
James Wade: or if you extend this analogy to go to a Shiny app, you know, the art museum here is asking your attendees to maybe step back from the data and listen to you. You're not really inviting them in, whereas the kids' museum is saying, hey, come play with this. I want you to come and explore.
James Wade: And if you think about this, which room, or, you know, here, which presentation is going to have more energy and excitement that's a part of it?
James Wade: Well…
James Wade: Maybe this seems obvious, that yes, if you can have an interactive application, that this would be your preference, but
James Wade: Why aren't we writing more shiny apps? Why aren't we having more interactive tools that people can use?
James Wade: I think this comes down to two traps. The first is the… what I'll call the don't-build-it trap.
James Wade: it ends up being… it feels like it's way too much effort to build an application for one meeting. We fall back to working on slides because we think that climbing this development hill is going to be a bit too steep. The second trap that we may fall into is, yeah, you decide, yeah, I'm going to go build an application for this.
James Wade: And then you turn around and it's been a week, and you have a nice application, but, you know, you're behind on all your other work. You think that, yeah, if I build this, it's got to be some sort of production-grade capability, I need to think about users, and maybe you end up over-engineering a solution that really should have been a one-off need.
James Wade: And the result of both of these traps is that we end up having death by PowerPoint. We end up going, falling back to slides when maybe this interactive modality would end up being better for us.
James Wade: So this brings us to this idea of the disposable shiny app.
James Wade: And what I'm… what I want you to think about here is, and instead of building slides, what if it was as easy to build an application for an individual meeting as it was to build the entire slide deck?
James Wade: The value here is to have an immediate impact, not focusing on longevity.
James Wade: And we need to change our thinking a little bit here about… of an application where it's more of a communication artifact or a communication tool, not a production system that people are going to rely upon. And of course, it's designed to be tossed away.
James Wade: One other way to think about this, it's a whiteboard sketch, not a monument.
James Wade: So…
James Wade: I'll caveat this a little bit by saying I mean this a little bit tongue-in-cheek, but there is a game changer here that can revolutionize our approach to this, specifically if you're looking at this talk and you're thinking it's way too much effort for us to climb this development hill.
James Wade: And this is vibe coding. Now.
James Wade: I mostly mean this as a joke, and I'll continue to mean it as a joke until I don't anymore, but you can think of this as you can use these plain English prompts, where you can take that, an idea, and you can turn this into something close to a functional shiny application in just a few seconds using a capability like Copilot, or maybe the Positron Assistant that I'm highly anticipating is going to be highlighted at PositCuff, and will probably
James Wade: Probably had been highlighted before this talk.
James Wade: You can go and you can put this… oh, this… well, this did not render appropriately, but the idea here is to have a prompt and then, show some code, that… that's… that… that's coming out of this.
James Wade: And in particular, a disposable shiny application really fits this quite well, of taking an idea and having a Shiny upcoming at the end.
James Wade: So let's think about how you can go about building this particular type of shiny application, and I want to do this by building an app called the Chaos… the Cat Chaos Coordinator.
James Wade: Importantly, what we want to do with this is start with a question.
James Wade: You want to really understand the intent going into this application, and it really should only be one. If you're trying to answer multiple questions with this, the application is likely going to get you to a level of more complexity.
James Wade: So, I might… I don't… I haven't looked at the time that I'm doing here. This is gonna go through kind of a more detailed step through this, and this… the application itself is going to change. So, I'm going to mostly skip through this portion, and maybe, if I have time, go through a couple of the objections, and then I'll… then maybe stop.
Blythe Coons: You're at 6.45 right now.
James Wade: Okay
James Wade: So, I want to directly address some of the objections that some of you may have, or some of the questions that you may have going into this.
James Wade: The first of which is, who's gonna support this? I get this question all the time. What's the maintenance plan? Who's gonna be the owner of this thing? Let's remember, nobody's gonna support this. That's the entire point of this.
James Wade: You don't need… you don't need to have a maintenance crew for a whiteboard drawing. You can just totally erase this away. If the application took 15 minutes to build again, and somebody decides that they want it, well, you know, you have 15 minutes. You can go… just go and rebuild it. And honestly, if it does…
James Wade: becomes something longer term, then that's going to be a different project and is no longer serving the purpose of a shiny application.
James Wade: Second thing you might be thinking, especially if you are in a larger company where you're heavy users of tools like Positive Connect, is isn't this going to create a bunch of apps for all, where you already have a cluttered dashboard and nobody knows how to find anything?
James Wade: Well…
James Wade: Yeah, probably, and I'll tell you that I'm probably not the right person to provide advice for this, because I've been accused of myself of becoming an application hoarder. I have way too many of these capabilities, because I like them, and they're relatively easy to keep existing on there.
James Wade: But again, let's think of the mentality here. You probably don't even need to deploy something that's going to be used for this disposable application. You're creating a communication artifact, not this production system, and so part of the mental shift that you need to go through here is committing to actually throwing the app away.
James Wade: Lastly, maybe you're thinking, this sounds like too much work. You're probably still going to have to go in, and create slides, so is this really going to be faster?
James Wade: you know, I've done this myself and go and think through how much does this take me if I'm going to go and build one of these capabilities, and usually it can be an entire workday, dedicated to go building an application that sometimes I feel just doesn't have the impact that I want. It doesn't have any interactivity.
James Wade: And I've gotten to the point, heavily leveraging these AI capabilities, a la Posit Assistant, to go and create an interactive application in under an hour. And if you don't believe me of how quickly these can be, I really want to challenge you to go and try this yourself.
James Wade: The overall… so the impact-to-effort ratio that you can think about here is going to be really high, and let's be honest, it's way more fun to tinker with a Shiny application than it is to go
James Wade: Tinker with slides.
James Wade: ….
Blythe Coons: We're gonna pause you there, if that's okay.
James Wade: Yep, yep, yep.
Blythe Coons: Okay, great.
James Wade: This is… and this is the kind of closing challenge that I have, is I just want them to, you know, go do it, is sort of the call to… call to action that I have.
Blythe Coons: Great. Awesome. Thanks, James. How did that feel?
James Wade: It felt okay. I had… oh, that link is wrong. …
James Wade: Yeah, it's… I don't know. I'm excited about the topic, so I kind of have fun talking through it. One…
James Wade: The museum analogy, I liked creating it, but felt kind of clunky, so I'd like feedback on how people felt about that.
Blythe Coons: Okay.
James Wade: … Yeah, felt pretty good.
Blythe Coons: So, first things first. Things that you liked about James's talk, things that were sticky, takeaways, only positives, no recommendations yet.
Charlie Gao: the… The way you described the…
Charlie Gao: Shiny app as a communication artifact?
Charlie Gao: I thought that was super important, and I don't know if you've come back to that topic, but I felt…
Charlie Gao: That was, you know… If people took nothing out.
Charlie Gao: Nothing else out of your presentation? Just that would be…
Charlie Gao: That's super important, in my opinion.
Charlie Gao: I'm really glad you picked up on it.
Blythe Coons: James, I like that too. And you… you equate it to a whiteboard sketch. I thought, is it like a post-it note as well? Like, something that.
James Wade: I like that.
Blythe Coons: post-it note doesn't take as long as a whiteboard sketch, but I think of this as such a throwaway thing, as opposed to something that is erased.
Blythe Coons: I don't know.
Blythe Coons: Claudia, something you liked from James's talk.
Claudia Penaloza: I love the analogy of the art museum versus the kids' museum.
Claudia Penaloza: I'm not supposed to give any recommendations now, so I'm not gonna say anything else. Let me see what else I thought was really cool.
Claudia Penaloza: … Yeah, just focusing on that interactivity, and actually, like.
Claudia Penaloza: Death by PowerPoint is a thing.
Claudia Penaloza: And if you… if you can actually interact with your… with the people who are listening to you, I think it's much…
Claudia Penaloza: Easier, more effective way to getting
Claudia Penaloza: the information that you're trying to show, getting that information across. I think it's….
Blythe Coons: So you got a vote for your art museum versus kids' museum. And, you know, James, I have a lot of positive things in my notes. I also like the Death by Power point. I also like the
Blythe Coons: communications artifact. I like how you are structuring it, like, the titles of the slides, the universal frustration, here are the two traps, these sorts of things. I think you take us through it really clearly.
Blythe Coons: I wanna… I wanna share with you some times that I clocked. So, you got to the disposable app at about 4 minutes, 18 seconds.
Blythe Coons: You were at Traps by 3 minutes and 12.
James Wade: Okay.
Blythe Coons: So…
Blythe Coons: you know, I would normally want you to be at your disposable app by 3, 3.30, but I think that the traps are a really important part of the context here.
Blythe Coons: The art museum, kids' museum, does take, like, over a minute to explain as an analogy, but I think it's relevant.
James Wade: What about… so, I was going through the points, and I felt like, I was like, oh, maybe I don't need these. Do you think images of museums might make this more… yeah.
Claudia Penaloza: That was gonna be my recommendation, like, a picture of a whole bunch of, you know, crusty adults staring at pictures.
Claudia Penaloza: You know, art, whatever, and then the kids just, like, climbing over everything and stuff, and yeah, would definitely be….
Blythe Coons: And James.
Charlie Gao: Can I just say that I didn't get that analogy at all?
Charlie Gao: No, not at all. I mean, I just, like, it didn't resonate with me.
Claudia Penaloza: Do you have kids?
Charlie Gao: No.
Blythe Coons: I actually.
Claudia Penaloza: That might be the reason.
Blythe Coons: I think the images, James, will be really helpful here, right? Like, a ball pit, or whatever you have at a kid's museum, versus.
James Wade: Yeah.
Blythe Coons: a bunch of people staring at a Whistler, and like, you know, how stodgy it can be. I would take all the words off that slide, except maybe the final point, where, like, data, it should be fun, versus… Yep.
Blythe Coons: Yep. And just do images, and one and two images. And I would actually reverse it. So you had kids on the right, you had art museum on the left. Because you're gonna talk about kids first, bring in kids first on the left.
James Wade: Yep, okay.
James Wade: So, Charlie, just to make this explicit, I mean, I make sure this is making sense, is that the idea is that you're touching things at a kid's museum, whereas you can't touch anything in an art museum. You have to stand back and look at the painting.
James Wade: Versus, like, click around on a shiny app.
Charlie Gao: Yeah, the reason I'm hesitant is that it makes it seem that it…
Charlie Gao: you know, it makes it seem that the Shiny app is in some way less serious, or….
James Wade: ….
Charlie Gao: You know.
James Wade: Okay.
Charlie Gao: And that was what I got from it.
James Wade: Yeah.
Charlie Gao: That is, in some way, … Yeah, less consequential, rather, yeah.
James Wade: Yeah, that's helpful feedback, because I think I can… I think I can explain it a little bit better.
James Wade: Same thing might be true of the post-it note analogy, as it feels like it less….
Charlie Gao: I mean, again, I mean…
Charlie Gao: I mean, sort of this concept of, you know, sort of people looking at sort of like a crusty whistler, I mean.
Charlie Gao: that's not my typical, like, experience of art museums. Like, I'm very into my art, but there's, like.
Charlie Gao: Yeah. So… Yeah, I don't know. I mean, it just…
Charlie Gao: didn't… to me, it just didn't really work that well, but I understand what you're aiming for.
James Wade: Okay, I'll think more on that, of how to deliver that, because I also love art museums.
James Wade: I'm not saying there's anything wrong with Whistler, by the way. It's… I think the… I think the through line there is that it's, …
James Wade: it depends on your intent, right? There might be a time where you want to have a really polished story, like, you know, you don't want to be interrupted when you're telling this… giving this slide, and that could be true for a shiny application demo as well, where, like, it's a really consequential scenario, so that's a…
James Wade: Yeah, thanks for that feedback.
Blythe Coons: Other recommendations? I think, Claudia, you had a couple on your list.
Claudia Penaloza: … Yes, I was gonna… there… okay, so…
Claudia Penaloza: Hadley presented a keynote at Uzar.
Claudia Penaloza: And during his keynote, he exemplified how fast an AI can build a shiny app.
Claudia Penaloza: And not only with prompting, like, not only just, you know, verbally asking the…
Claudia Penaloza: the LLM to do something, you can draw the Shiny app And it will… code…
Claudia Penaloza: According to the drawing that you gave it.
Claudia Penaloza: So….
James Wade: Right.
Claudia Penaloza: I'm pretty sure you can watch his keynote if you want.
James Wade: I've seen it, yeah, it's… I liked it a lot, yeah.
Claudia Penaloza: No.
Claudia Penaloza: So even, like, even easier than you describing what you want the app to do, you draw the app, and it will make it for you, which I thought.
James Wade: You under… you underestimate how bad of an artist I am.
Claudia Penaloza: Well, I mean, you can draw a square, come on.
James Wade: True, true.
Charlie Gao: Yeah, I'm guessing most people at PosiConf will be quite receptive to the subject, so you probably don't need to be too apologetic in sort of, you know, vibe coding or sort of, you know…
Charlie Gao: Having to couch those turns so much.
James Wade: I think what I… so the… so here's something that I, for my last session, I was wanting to make sure we… I got through, was,
James Wade: The case of vibe coding that I don't want people to do is that you don't get to skip the careful consideration of the message you're trying to communicate.
James Wade: just because you're creating an app. And so that's what I want, like, that's…
James Wade: I think it'll come through in the demo of… of how to… how you create this, and how you're putting that thought into
James Wade: your prompt, basically. ….
Charlie Gao: I think that's all the point.
James Wade: how to communicate.
Charlie Gao: That sounds… that sounds fine, yeah. I just didn't want you to feel that, you know, that there might be sort of hostility in the room, like, I don't….
James Wade: Sure.
James Wade: 2024, there might have been. Yeah. Yeah.
Charlie Gao: So, you know, you have….
James Wade: When you have Hadley and Joe standing….
Charlie Gao: Even Hadley's talk at Yuzar, you know, that audience would traditionally be a bit more cautious, but, you know, the reception to his talk was fantastic.
James Wade: Oh, that's great to hear, yeah.
Blythe Coons: One of the only recommendations I have for you, and you're doing a great job of building the slides, you know, you've done this before, James, but for your…
Blythe Coons: Production and disposable slide, which was pretty early.
Blythe Coons: I would break apart those two comparisons, and I wouldn't bring in disposable until you've finished with
Blythe Coons: Production, because otherwise people are going to be reading ahead.
James Wade: Okay. Do you mean have it on a separate slide, or just wait to do the build?
Blythe Coons: wait to do the build, because you brought them in both really quickly at this, like, so I was looking at disposable the whole time you were talking about production, and I just want you to wait until you're ready to talk about it.
James Wade: Gotcha.
Blythe Coons: And then for your link at the end, even if it's incorrect, when you get it corrected, I would give a QR code. Hadley is encouraging as many QR codes as possible, just to make it really easy to snap a picture of.
James Wade: Cool.
Claudia Penaloza: I have a question, and I don't know if I'm supposed to say anything about this. You had a lot of different colored backgrounds.
Claudia Penaloza: is… You saw my slides, mine are, like…
Claudia Penaloza: two-toned, so I'm obviously on the other end.
Blythe Coons: And again, every single person's aesthetic is different, and there's no right or wrong about backgrounds or… I mean, the most important thing, as I said to you, is contrast, and I think we got that with James's.
James Wade: If it is, so the one thing I have found jarring is if it is a dark room, and the only time it got dark last year at conf was in, like, the keynote.
James Wade: Areas was going from a dark slide to a white background slide, you're, like, hit in the face, and that can be jarring.
Blythe Coons: Right. But most….
James Wade: In the room, it's not bad, because it's….
Blythe Coons: Most of the breakout rooms are well lit.
Charlie Gao: Yeah, I wouldn't be worried about that at all. Like, I'm only using the slides I'm using because there's, like, a conf template. Like, most of the time, my slides are just white background.
Blythe Coons: Okay, any other questions or concerns for James, vice versa? James, any other questions you want to ask the audience you have here today?
James Wade: I don't think so.
Charlie Gao: Oh, just on… just one tiny point on Positron Assistant, yeah, you can be sure that someone will have mentioned it or something, like, you don't need to sort of, like, I suppose, like, that will be, yeah.
James Wade: I haven't pored over the agenda yet, but I have to… I mean, it's, like, I have it open right now, so, like, it's… it's… it's out, right?
Charlie Gao: Yeah, yeah.
James Wade: That's actually where I'm gonna… the… the…
James Wade: yeah, the prompts that you can use if you want to have a good Shiny app are, like, just go to the Shiny VS Code, you know, GitHub repo, and just take them.
James Wade: Right? It ends up making much better shiny apps. I assume that's going to be built into Posletron's system, too. It's… I can't use it because it's blocked, or Anthropic's blocked.
Charlie Gao: Oh, I see, right, yeah. No, they have, like, a slash command, so you can do, like, slash shiny, and yeah.
James Wade: Oh, awesome.
James Wade: Yeah, yeah, I'm excited.
Blythe Coons: Great.
Blythe Coons: Alright, so, what's up next? Some of you know, the next call is the content review. Content review is gonna feel like this session in a lot of different ways… in a lot of ways, because you're gonna give 7 to 10 minutes of your talk.
Blythe Coons: You don't necessarily have to start at the beginning if you want us to hear something new, but it does help us to get a little bit of that setup, and I think if you're retooling the setup just to give it a pass with a different audience is helpful. And then you can skip wherever you want to, doesn't matter.
Blythe Coons: We're gonna really control feedback at that point, because we're gonna be one and a half, two weeks out from actual comp, and we don't want to blow up your talk like we did today, like, we won't be reorganizing things, we won't be saying, hey, this doesn't work, like, nothing like that.
Blythe Coons: What we will be giving feedback on, things that are going really well, so you can feel good about them, put them to bed.
Blythe Coons: Like, move on.
Blythe Coons: Things that are perhaps confusing, so that you can connect the dots for us a little bit more.
Blythe Coons: And then, if there is any jargon, we're gonna turn our ears on for jargon check. I didn't necessarily hear any today, but other audiences will hear different things, and so we just want to make sure that there wasn't any jargon.
Blythe Coons: So that everyone gets a fair shake at understanding.
Blythe Coons: And then we're gonna make sure that your slides are as close to finished as possible. We really do want to see, sort of, how things line up, and we want you to leave that session able to make just a few small tweaks.
Blythe Coons: and then get into practicing. So, we won't talk about practicing at this point, because you're still polishing, but when we get there, we'll talk about what the time between that content review and conf should look like and feel like for getting your talk in your body.
Blythe Coons: Any questions for me?
Blythe Coons: Alright, then that's all I've got for you today, and I will see you in a couple weeks, one way or another.
Blythe Coons: Thanks so much, everybody, for your help and guidance today.
Claudia Penaloza: Thank you.
James Wade: Hi, everybody.